https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/samiraalipour/rcsb-pdb-macromolecular-structure-dataset

RCSB_PDB Human Macromolecular Structure Dataset with Structural Features

This dataset consists of 11,832 protein structures obtained from the RCSB Protein Data Bank (PDB), covering the period from 2015 to 2023. It includes features relevant to X-ray crystallography-determined protein structures from the organism Homo sapiens (human). In addition, new structural features such as the number of residues, chains, and secondary structure components (helix, sheet, coil) have been added.

This is going to be extremely useful for providing the protein specific data and which polymer/protien-ligand binding will work for the biomaterial selected, and how the material will react to the biomarkers present at the chosen site in the human body. 

The dataset is optimized for tasks such as **protein-ligand binding** prediction, **oligomeric state analysis**, **enzyme classification**, **protein secondary structure prediction**, **structure quality assessment**, and more. By incorporating secondary structure data, the dataset also supports tasks related to structural motif detection, protein stability prediction, and protein domain analysis. This again will be very useful for the biomaterial selection tool as I want to make sure I have enough cross reference and multi-domain knowledge, fed to the ML model, along with classical algorithms to classify and determine the biocompatibility score for matching the material to the target site/application. 

Because of the clinical nature of the intended use case for this tool, I want to make sure **every** facet of variables when considering a transplant/total endoprosthesis/partial endoprosthesis is taken into account as the smallest factor can make or break the biocompatibility of the prosthetic to the human. This data set provides already collected and proven accurate results regarding human protein structures and their characteristics, to help in decision making which at the end of the say, will be made by human. Smallest things such as the protein fold type, pH level, its crystalline structure, if at all, can help determine the appropriate Nano-to-Macro scale picture by considering ALL of these factors in live time.